Freedom... freedom!
Fuck you, FEDRA... fuck you, FEDRA!
Kansas City belongs to the people.
Collaborators, surrender now
and you will receive a fair trial.
We have control of the QZ
and the open city.
Anyone caught hiding
will face charges
of counter-revolutionary activities.
Kansas City belongs to the people.
Collaborators, surrender now...
You know, Perry, I used to be
so scared of these people.
Now look at them.
Did it feel good
betraying your neighbors to FEDRA?
Watching us get thrown in prison
watching us hang
so that you could get medicine
alcohol, fucking... apples?
Did it make you feel better?
Did it make you feel safe?
How does it make you feel now?
Well, I'm not FEDRA.
Lucky for you
no one here has to die.
Yeah, we could put you on trial.
You're all guilty,
so that's how that'll go.
And you'll do some time. Easy.
But first, you have to do
something for me.
Where is Henry?
You're informers.
Inform.
Where is Henry?
I guess they don't know.
- Kill them.
- He's with Edelstein.
Edelstein was a collaborator?
Well, he was a lot more discreet
than you fucking idiots.
Where are they?
He said he was meeting up
with Henry and Sam.
- Okay.
- He had a place
to hole up in the open city
in case things went bad.
But things have gone great,
haven't you heard?
Kansas City is free.
Hole up where?
He didn't say.
I swear, I've told you
everything I know.
Of course, you have.
You're a rat.
He's still in the city, okay?
I want our people going door-to-door
until we find him.
- Now?
- Oh, I'm sorry.
How long do you think
we should wait?
Should we wait a day or two?
Should we wait a week?
Oh, fuck it,
Let's give him a month.
I'm not saying we do nothing.
We already got a perimeter
around the city. We can wait him out.
Door-to-door would take a lot of men
and there are other things
that probably need...
He's not my seventh priority, Perry.
Is that what he is to you?
No.
Are we really putting them on trial?
No, we are not really
putting them on trial.
When you're done,
burn the bodies. It's faster.
You sure they don't know about this?
I got it from a FEDRA officer.
Patient.
Owed me a favor.
He said he found it himself,
never told anyone about it.
- And what if they get to him?
- They already did.
- He won't be talking.
- Fuck.
Okay. Water? Toilets?
The apartments below
are tied into the QZ main.
We can use those,
but we have to be fast and careful.
- Food?
- Whatever you brought.
I barely made it out as is.
So we're fucked on food?
- Ammunition?
- Empty.
Yeah, so is mine.
We weren't shooting our way
out of this anyway.
No, so we'll sneak our way out.
How?
- Tunnels.
- Tunnels?
Why go to the trouble?
You can kill yourself right here.
Twenty cans, and six pounds of jerky
for the three of us.
If we stick to the minimum
I think we can make it 11 days?
So that's how long we have
to figure it out.
Is he scared?
Yeah. Well, he saw a lot.
Nothing I can do about that now.
He's scared because you're scared.
What?
Yeah...
Joel.
Joel!
Eyes on me. Eyes on me.
You don't have to worry
about what to say.
We don't wanna hurt you.
We wanna help you.
Okay.
Okay...
I don't know what the next step is
with something like this
but if I lower my gun
we didn't hurt you
so you don't hurt us.
Right?
That's right.
That's a weird fucking tone, man.
That's just the way he sounds.
He has an asshole voice.
Joel, tell him he's okay.
- Everything is great.
- Dude.
Fuck!
Okay. Listen.
I'm gonna trust you.
Yes.
But if either of you guys
try anything...
yeah?
Yeah?
Yeah.
Can I sit up?
Slow.
Get up slow.
Who are you?
My name's Henry.
That's my brother, Sam.
I'm the most wanted man
in Kansas City.
Although right now...
my guess is you're running
a close second.
- Where'd you get these?
- From Bill.
He's dead.
He says thank you.
I'm guessing you don't have much,
so this means a lot.
How old is he?
- He's eight.
- Cool.
I'm Ellie.
I'm Joel. Look, you ate,
we didn't kill each other
let's call this a win-win
and move on.
Well, I'm betting
that y'all came up here
to get a view of the city
and plan a way out.
And when the sun's up
I'll show you one.
Welcome to Killa City.
No FEDRA.
Not as of ten days ago, no.
- We always heard KC FEDRA was...
- Monsters? Savages?
Yeah, you heard right.
Raped and tortured and
murdered people for 20 years.
And you know what happens
when you do that to people?
The moment they get a chance,
they do it right back to you.
But you're not FEDRA.
No, worse.
I'm a collaborator.
- I don't work with rats.
- Yeah, you fucking do.
Today you do
because I live here and you don't.
That's how I followed you here.
I know this city, and that's how
I'm gonna help you get out.
Why help us?
I saw what you did.
The way you killed those men.
Now, I know where to go
but I don't know
how to make it through alive.
- Not if it's just me and Sam.
- You seem capable enough.
- You're armed.
- You're wrong, and wrong.
Never killed anyone.
And pointing an unloaded gun at you
was the closest I've ever come
to being violent.
So that's the deal.
I show the way.
You clear the way.
Haven't heard that in a long time.
So how are we getting out?
Highways, downtown.
Us.
This whole area belongs to Kathleen.
She's in charge?
Leader of the resistance.
You can see the way
we're bounded by highways.
They got people posted all around
the inside perimeter.
If we get close, we get caught.
No question.
So how do we get across?
Kansas City has a subway?
No, but they do have
maintenance tunnels.
There's a bunch of buildings
all put up by the same developers.
And they share these tunnels,
including...
a bank building here.
So we enter the tunnels here
travel underground and pop up here.
Westside North. Residential.
There's an embankment
on the other side of the houses.
We head down
pedestrian bridge over the river
free as a bird.
You're right. It's a great plan.
So, what do you need me for?
You noticed anything strange
about this city?
I mean, other than the strange shit
you've already seen?
- No Infected?
- Oh, there's Infected.
Just not on the surface.
FEDRA drove them underground
15 years ago
and never let them come back up.
It's the only good thing
those fascist motherfuckers ever did.
So you want us going into a tunnel?
Everyone thinks
that it's full of Infected
including Kathleen,
which means that we're not gonna be
running into any of her people.
But you see, what I know is
it's empty.
You've been down there?
No, but the FEDRA guy
that I worked with
told me that it's clean,
completely clean.
- They cleared it out. All of it.
- When?
Like, three years ago.
Okay, maybe, there's one or two
- but you handle it.
- What if there's more?
Or one of those blind ones
that sees like a bat?
Wait, you ran into a Clicker?
- Two of them.
- And you're still alive.
You see?
You're the right people.
If it gets bad down there,
we turn around
and run right back out
the same way we came.
That's your great plan?
No, that's my dicey-as-fuck plan.
But as far as I could tell
it's our only shot.
They're saying
they're going to help us escape.
Right?
We need to get out of sight.
I think it's this way.
This should be it.
You ready?
Get your gun out.
See? It's empty.
The plan is good.
"The plan is good"?
We've been down here two seconds.
We don't know anything.
Your dad's kind of a pessimist.
- He's not my dad.
- I'm not her dad.
Just point your light forward
and be ready to run.
No.
I heard about places like this.
People went underground
after Outbreak Day.
Built settlements.
What happened to them?
Maybe they didn't follow the rules
and they all got infected.
No way! I love these.
I have issues...
4, 5, 6, 11.
So cool.
"To the edge of the universe
and back.
Endure and survive."
Endure.
Survive.
Endure. Survive.
Fuck yeah, man!
Keep it down. We're not out yet.
Oh, c'mon. Can we just
rest here for a while?
There's, like, actually
shit to do here.
Wouldn't be so bad
to wait the light out a bit.
Safer in shadows when we pop
back out on the other side.
Yes! Come on! Yeah!
Come on. Pass it back.
Yeah!
Okay.
If you were...
collaboratin' to take care of him
I shouldn't have said what I said.
I don't know your situation.
And I'm not sayin'
they should let it go, but...
All things considered,
seems kinda cruel...
to send a whole army
after you for that.
You know, I wasn't...
exactly telling you the truth before
about me not killing someone.
There was a man, a great man.
You know, he was never afraid
never selfish
and he was always forgiving.
Have you ever met someone like that?
Kind of man you'd follow anywhere.
I mean, I wanted to.
Well, I would've.
Yeah, but...
Sam, he...
he got sick.
Leukemia.
Yeah, anyway...
there was one drug that worked
and, whoa, big shock.
There wasn't much left of it
and it belonged to FEDRA.
And if I wanted some
it was gonna take something big.
So I gave them something big.
That one great man.
The leader of the resistance
movement in Kansas City.
And Kathleen's brother.
Yeah, so...
you still think they should
take it easy on me?
Or am I the bad guy?
I don't know
what you're waitin' on, man.
The answer's easy.
I am the bad guy
because I did a bad guy thing.
But you get it, though.
You might not be her father
but you were someone's.
See, I could tell.
Yeah, where'd he go?
We've waited long enough.
- And?
- We haven't found 'em yet.
What about the man who killed Bryan?
Well...
we're not doin' so good.
Who told you I was here?
Your mom.
Why are you talking to my mom?
We didn't know where you were.
Have you been back to the room
you grew up in?
No. Fuck no.
It's a couple hundred miles away.
It's not exactly worth it.
Right.
When Michael and I were little
this room seemed so big.
I was really scared of thunder.
So when there was a storm...
Michael told me
that this wasn't a room at all.
That this was actually
just a big, wooden box.
A big, wooden box
that nothing could get inside of.
And it didn't matter
if there was lightning
or tornadoes or gunfire.
He said as long as we were together
in our perfect box...
we would be safe.
He did that for me.
And he did stuff like that
all the time.
He was so beautiful.
I'm not.
I never was.
He would be horrified by
the things I've done.
And if you've come to tell me
that Michael wouldn't want me
to hurt Henry
that he would want me to forgive...
I know that too.
He told me.
The last time
I saw him alive in jail...
he told me to forgive.
And what did he get for that?
Where is the justice in that?
What is the point of that?
Your brother was a great man.
We all loved him.
But...
he didn't change anything.
You did.
We're with you.
Good.
- Do you know where we are?
- Yep.
The other side.
No one is here.
No one's gonna be here,
because my plan worked.
So much goddamn talkin'.
I'm just saying, I delivered.
Make this right, go down the street
embankment behind the last house...
and we're out.
So we cross the river and then what?
Where ya gonna go?
- Don't know yet.
- Well, we're goin' to Wyoming.
What? It's a huge state.
It can fit two more people.
Yeah.
Maybe we just call this one a success
and say our fond farewells.
No, he'll change his mind.
Trust me. This is how it goes.
He's like, "No, Ellie.
Never, ever, ever happening."
And then I'm like, "I'm gonna
ask you a million more times."
And he's like... Fuck!
Move... move!
Go!
- The fuck is that comin' from?
- Shut up.
Shit. All right, fuck.
Let's move. Let's go.
- What are you doin'?
- Gettin' the fuck outta here!
Oh shit...
What do we do?
All right.
- Stay here.
- What?
If you don't move,
he's not gonna hit you.
I'm gonna go around
try to get in the house
through the back
- and then I'll take him out.
- But if you go out there
- he's gonna kill you.
- It's dark and he has shit aim.
- Nobody's gonna kill me.
- Then he's gonna kill us.
Do you trust me?
Put the gun down, slide it over to me
and then stay up here
for another hour.
That's all you have to do.
Please don't do it.
Please.
Anthony? Anthony?
Anthony, hold them where they are.
We're almost there.
Fuck.
Run!
There's cars everywhere.
Why do you think you're in front?
Clear them.
Go... go!
- You okay?
- Yeah.
- He's up there.
- Fuck.
Two and two!
Around the back, take him out!
Dead end, Henry.
Gonna step on out?
Save us some time?
No?
That's all right, it doesn't matter.
I'll come out!
Just let the kids go!
No.
Sorry.
The girl is with the man
who killed Bryan.
And Sam...
- Well, Sam's with you.
- You don't understand!
But I do.
I know why you did what you did.
But did you ever stop to think
that maybe he was supposed to die?
He's just a fucking kid!
Well, kids die, Henry.
They die all the time.
You think the whole world
revolves around him?
That he's worth...
everything?
Well, this is what happens
when you fuck with fate.
Get ready to take him and run. Yes!
Do it.
It's time, Henry.
Enough!
Okay.
It ends the way it ends.
No!
Run 'em down...!
Run. Find cover.
Don't look back.
Run!
Help! Get the fuck away!
Get the fuck off me!
No! Sam!
Sam!
Come on... come on!
Go... go!
Stop!
This way now! Move!
"As the Raven 01
approaches the red planet..."
You think they'll be okay?
Yeah, I think.
It's easier when you're a kid anyway.
You don't have anybody else
relying on you.
That's the hard part.
Well...
I guess we're doing a good job then.
What's that comic book say?
- "Endure and survive"?
- "Endure and survive."
- That shit's redundant.
- Yeah, it's not great.
No.
Look, I don't know exactly
how I'm gettin' to Wyoming.
I'm probably walkin'.
But...
- you know, if you want to...
- Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think it'd be nice
for Sam to have a friend.
I'll tell him in the morning.
New day, new start.
"Bingo!"
"Should we knock?"
Hey.
"I don't see any weird movements.
Stiff? Negative."
"Damage here in Sector 153.
Stella, can you hear me?"
"I read you."
Okay, from here.
Do I not look scared?
"Never."
I'm scared all the time...
of scorpions!
Fuck.
My blood...
is medicine.
I promise.
Promise.
Hey.
- Nope...
- Joel!
Joel!
Ellie.
Are you okay?
Easy...
Henry, give me the gun.
What did I do?
What... what did I do?
- Sam?
- Henry, give me the gun.
Give me the gun.
Give me the gun, Henry.
- Give me the gun.
- Shit...
Henry, no!
Oh, god...
Which way's west?
Let's go.